# Fireplace

Fireplace is a project to track performance with Idris2 and its libraries.

## Goals

- Track how fast compiler idris2 binaries compile
- Track performance changes between idris2 versions
- Track performance of the Idris2 ecosystem

## What do we benchmark?

There are two kinds of benchmarks we want to measure:
- How long does it take for Idris to compile projects
- How fast do the compiled executables run.

The Idris2 compiler itself being an idris2 executable, it would be helpful to know how fast
it can bootstrap itself.

Given a single copy of the source of the compiler we have access to 3 compilers:

 - Compiler1: the bootstrap compiler in scheme
 - Compiler2: The compiler generated by compiling the source using Compiler1
 - Compiler3: The compiler generated by compiling the source using Compiler2

We want to benchmark compiler3 since this is the compiler most people will use.

## Methodology

To limit the scope of this project the methodology will be quite naive. We will measure 2 things without worrying about startup
time of the runtime environement nor worry about the specific of the machine it's running on.

### Compiler performance

To measure the performance of the compiler at compiling programs we take the following steps:

- To benchmark the compiler at commit X, we pull the compiler, build it until we get `Compiler3`
- We pick an idris2 project and compile it using `Compiler3` and measure the time it takes with `time`
- Repeat for other projects and aggregate the results

This will measure how fast the compiler is at compiling idris2 source code (including itself).

### Binary performance

Compiling the time it takes for the compiler to compile itself is already some form of binary performance measure, but
the compiler itself might not use every single feature that we would like to measure.

- To benchmark the compiler at commit X, we pull the compiler, build it until we get `Compiler3`
- We pick an idris2 project and compile it using `Compiler3`
- Once the project is compiled, we run the tests of the project and measure the time it takes with `time`

This will measure how fast the executables generated by Idris run.


## Todo

- [ ] pull the compiler
  - [x] add pack as a dependency
  - [ ] Bootstrap it after filling the holes
- [ ] Measure how long it takes to compile `idris2` with the bootstrapped compiler
- [ ] Measure how long it takes to compile all the libraries in the pack database
- [ ] add a `--benchmark` option to compiler binaries that will time when the program starts and ends without startup time
- [ ] compile the tests with `--benchmark` and collect the results after running them
